<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_tkt_t4v_kx">
    <title>Anomalies</title>
    <prolog>
        <metadata>
            <keywords>
                <indexterm>Anomalies</indexterm>
                <indexterm>Deep Space Exploration<indexterm>Anomalies</indexterm></indexterm>
                <indexterm>Perihelion</indexterm>
                <indexterm>Perigee</indexterm>
            </keywords>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <body>
        <p>In astronomy, an <b>anomaly</b> refers to the angular distance of a planet or satellite
            from its last <term>perihelion</term> or <term>perigee</term>.</p>
        <p>
            <dl id="dl1">
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Perihelion</dt>
                    <dd>The point in the orbit of a planet, asteroid, or comet at which it is
                        closest to the sun.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Perigee</dt>
                    <dd>The point in the orbit of the moon or a satellite at which it is nearest to
                        the earth.</dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl>
        </p>
        <p>The following is a list of some anomalies:<ul id="ul1">
                <li><xref href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apsidal_precession" format="html"
                        scope="external">Anomalous precession</xref>, another term for "apsidal
                    precession".</li>
                <li><xref href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eccentric_anomaly" format="html"
                        scope="external">Eccentric anomaly</xref>, an intermediate value used to
                    compute the position of a celestial object as a function of time. Also see:<ul
                        id="ul2">
                        <li><xref href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eccentricity_vector"
                                format="html" scope="external">Eccentricity Vector</xref>, the
                            dimensionless vector with direction pointing from <term>apoapsis</term>
                            to <term>periapsis</term> and with magnitude equal to the orbit's scalar
                            eccentricity.</li>
                        <li><xref href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Orbital_eccentricity"
                                format="html" scope="external">Orbital Eccentricity</xref>, a
                            dimensionless parameter that determines the amount by which its orbit
                            around another body deviates from a perfect circle.</li>
                    </ul></li>
                <li><xref href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flyby_anomaly" format="html"
                        scope="external">Flyby anomaly</xref>, an unexpected energy increase during
                    the flybys of the Earth by various satellites.</li>
                <li><xref href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mean_anomaly" format="html"
                        scope="external">Mean anomaly</xref>, a measure of time in the study of
                    orbital dynamics.</li>
                <li><xref href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pioneer_anomaly" format="html"
                        scope="external">Pioneer anomaly</xref>, the observed deviation of the
                    trajectories of some unmanned space probes.</li>
                <li><xref href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/South_Atlantic_Anomaly" format="html"
                        scope="external">South Atlantic Anomaly</xref>, an area where the Earth's
                    inner radiation belt comes closest to the Earth's surface.</li>
                <li><xref href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/True_anomaly" format="html"
                        scope="external">True anomaly</xref>, the angle between the direction of
                        <term>periapsis</term> and the current position of an object on its
                    orbit.</li>
            </ul></p>
        <section id="kepler">
            <title>Kepler's Laws of Planetary Motion</title>
            <p>In astronomy, Kepler's laws of planetary motion are scientific laws describing the
                motion of planets around the Sun:<ol id="ol1">
                    <li>The orbit of a planet is an ellipse with the Sun at one of the two foci.<ol
                            id="ol2">
                            <li>The planetary orbit is not a circle, but an ellipse.<ol id="ol3">
                                    <li>The Sun is not at the center but at a focal point of the
                                        elliptical orbit.</li>
                                </ol></li>
                            <li>Neither the linear speed nor the angular speed of the planet in the
                                orbit is constant, but the area speed (closely linked historically
                                with the concept of angular momentum) is constant.</li>
                        </ol></li>
                    <li>A line segment joining a planet and the Sun sweeps out equal areas during
                        equal intervals of time.</li>
                    <li>The square of the orbital period of a planet is directly proportional to the
                        cube of the semi-major axis of its orbit.</li>
                </ol></p>
        </section>
    </body>
</topic>
